---
layout: default
navsection: api
navmenu: Schema
title: Link
navorder: 12
...

h1. Link

**Links** describe relationships between Arvados objects, and from objects to primitives.

Links are directional: each metadata object has a tail (the "subject" being described), class, name, properties, and head (the "object" that describes the "subject").  A Link may describe a relationship between two objects in an Arvados database: e.g. a _permission_ link between a User and a Group defines the permissions that User has to read or modify the Group.  Other Links simply represent metadata for a single object, e.g. the _identifier_ Link, in which the _name_ property represents a human-readable identifier for the object at the link's head.

For links that don't make sense to share between API clients, a _link_class_ that begins with @client@ (like @client.my_app_id@ or @client.my_app_id.anythinghere@) should be used.

h2. Methods

See "REST methods for working with Arvados resources":/api/methods.html

API endpoint base: @https://{{ site.arvados_api_host }}/arvados/v1/links@

h2. Resource

Each link has, in addition to the usual "attributes of Arvados resources":/api/resources.html:

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. Attribute|_. Type|_. Description|
|tail_uuid|string|Object UUID at the tail (start, source, origin) of this link|
|tail_kind|string|Object kind at the tail (start, source, origin) of this link|
|link_class|string|Class (see below)|
|name|string|Link type (see below)|
|head_uuid|string|Object UUID at the head (end, destination, target) of this link|
|head_kind|string|Object kind at the head (end, destination, target) of this link|
|properties{}|list|Additional information, expressed as a key&rarr;value hash. Key: string. Value: string, number, array, or hash.|

h2. Link classes

Some classes are pre-defined by convention and have standard meanings attached to names.

h3. provenance

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. tail_type&rarr;head_type|_. name&rarr;head_uuid {properties}|_. Notes|
|&rarr;Collection  |provided &rarr; _collection uuid_
{url&rarr;http://example.com/foo.tgz, retrieved_at&rarr;1352616640.000}||
|Job&rarr;Collection     |provided &rarr; _collection uuid_||
|Specimen&rarr;Collection|provided &rarr; _collection uuid_||
|Human&rarr;Specimen     |provided &rarr; _specimen uuid_||
|Human&rarr;Collection   |provided &rarr; _collection uuid_||

h3. permission

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. tail_type&rarr;head_type|_. name&rarr;head_uuid {properties}|_. Notes|
|User&rarr;Group  |can_manage &rarr; _group uuid_|Writable only by a user who can_manage this group|
|User&rarr;Group  |can_read &rarr; _group uuid_  |Writable only by a user who can_manage this group.
Gives permission to read any object owned by this group.|

h3. resources

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. tail_type&rarr;head_type|_. name&rarr;head_uuid {properties}|_. Notes|
|User&rarr;Collection|wants &rarr; _collection uuid_    |Determines whether data can be deleted|
|User&rarr;Job       |wants &rarr; _job uuid_    |Determines whether a job can be cancelled|

h3. tag

A **tag** link describes an object using an unparsed plain text string. Tags can be used to annotate objects that are not editable, like collections and objects shared as read-only.

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. tail_type&rarr;head_type|_. name&rarr;head_uuid {properties}|
|&rarr;Collection           | _tag name_ &rarr; _collection uuid_|
|&rarr;Job                  | _tag name_ &rarr; _job uuid_|

h3. human_trait

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. tail_type&rarr;head_type|_. name&rarr;head_uuid {properties}|_. Notes|
|Human&rarr;Trait  |measured &rarr; _trait uuid_ {value&rarr;1.83, unit&rarr;metre, measured_at&rarr;1352616640.000}||

h3. identifier

table(table table-bordered table-condensed).
|_. tail_type&rarr;head_type|_. name&rarr;head_uuid {properties}|_. Notes|
|&rarr;Human        |hu123456 &rarr; _human uuid_||

